# Ten Simple Rules for Writing Reusable Web Visualisations

# Abstract
Browsers’ performance has increased hugely; a process which has happened hand in hand with the latest advances and standardisation of key technologies such as HTML5, CSS3 and ECMASscript (formerly JavaScript) and the commoditization of network computing resources (i.e. cloud computing). All these factors have enabled the web to incorporate well established ideas and proven and tested principles from other domains of computer science and software engineering. In the last five years we have witnessed a qualitative leap, by virtue of which the web is now a computing platform with the added benefits of immediate availability of data, code and real-time collaboration. It has thus become the preferred medium for scientists of all disciplines to publish their research, along with visualisation software that can be reused and iterated. The following 10 rules offer guidelines learnt from our experience building and sharing data-driven web applications to maximise the benefits that users and developers can get from our software.

# 1. Define the context, question and audience
The goal of data visualisation is to communicate complex information accurately, making the relevant bits stand out among the less important data. In short, to raise the signal-to-noise ratio, figuratively speaking. The aforementioned relevant data should start with a question asked in regular language (e.g. “What genes are related to a specific disease?”, “How does a certain treatment affect the expression of a gene?”). However, as web developers, are responsibility is two-fold if we want our data visualisation to be reusable. We want to make our end product, our code, to be easily integrated in any environment. This is one of the fundamental ideas that permeate the following nine rules.

# 4. Take advantage of the web
The web was built on links, use them! Don’t build a closed silo. Your data visualisation should link to other resources and should pull as much information as possible without losing focus of your core question. Don’t make it a do-all, show-all sorts of data. It’s a fine line. Use common sense. Think if the linked-to or pulled data enhances the understandability of the information you’re presenting.
